All of us appreciate and enjoy receiving a gift, but to be able to give a gift to others
brings us even more joy.
As the great giver of all good things, Jehovah rejoices in giving and wants humans to
enjoy giving.
He is the first giver, He is the greatest giver.
He gave life to Spirit's sons and to humans.
He gave Adam a lovely wife.
He gave them a paradise to live in.
In turn, Adam and Eve were given the opportunity to give of their time and energy to take care
of the earthly home and to spread the garden of Eden into a global paradise inhabited
by righteous humans.
Later in human history, Jehovah created the nation of Israel and gave them a beautiful
land full of good things.
How could the Israelites show their appreciation?
Jehovah again provided an opportunity for his people to give.
In this case, he gave them a command to tithe.
What is that?
To tithe means to give a tenth of something.
Israelites were to give Jehovah a tenth of all their produce and animals.
We can read that account at Leviticus chapter 27 verses 30 and 32.
Follow me as I read from the screen.
Verse 30 says,
Every tenth part of the land, whether from the produce of the field or the fruit of the
trees, belongs to Jehovah, it is something holy to Jehovah.
Verse 32 says,
As for every tenth part of the herd and flock, everything that passes under the shepherd's
staff, the tenth animal should become something holy to Jehovah.
Did you notice that Jehovah said the tithe was a holy gift that belonged to him?
And yet, what did Jehovah do with that tithe?
He generously gave it or passed it on to the tribe of the Levites who had no land in
heritans.
Again, follow along on the screen as I read Numbers chapter 18 verse 21.
Now see that I have given to the sons of Levi every tenth part in Israel as an inheritance
in return for the service they are carrying out, the service of the tent of meeting.
Verse 24 says,
For I have given to the Levites as an inheritance, the tenth part contributed by the people of Israel,
which they will contribute to Jehovah.
That is why I have said to them,
In the midst of the Israelites, they should not take possession of an inheritance.
Think how this arrangement proved to be a blessing to the Levites who devoted their time and
attention to Jehovah's service at the tabernacle.
The arrangement also proved to be a blessing to all Israel to have one tribe completely devoted
to carrying for the tabernacle and later the temple of Jehovah.
But how would the Levites show their appreciation and love to Jehovah?
They also were commanded to tithe.
According to verses 26 through 29, they would contribute a tent of their contributions which
they received to the eronic priests for their support.
It seems the Israelites were also required to set aside an additional tent to cover the
expense of attending the three national festivals to Jehovah.
In the third and sixth year, these funds were given to the Levites,
alien residents, widows, and fatherless boys in the local community.
So what have we learned about giving and tithing?
As we have seen, the tithing arrangement provided a wonderful way for God's people to show
their love and appreciation for Jehovah and to support pure worship.
Imagine also how those who were disadvantaged, the alien residents, widows, and fatherless
boys also appreciated this loving provision.
But did you know there was something else very interesting about the tithing arrangement?
No where in the scriptures did Jehovah arrange for any human to monitor whether each person
was really giving the entire tent of his produce and his animals.
And no one was assigned to enforce compliance with the tithing arrangement.
So although it was required by law, tithing was entirely between the individual Israelite
and Jehovah.
As the arrangement allowed each Israelite to demonstrate his personal love for Jehovah.
But what if somebody secretly held back and did not give Jehovah the whole tith, perhaps
giving less than a tenth?
How would Jehovah feel about that?
Would he be inclined to bless those who were stingy?
That's not likely.
On the other hand, how would Jehovah feel about those who generously gave even more than
a tenth?
Well we don't have to get, guess.
Remember when faithful king Hezekiah promoted pure worship and encouraged tithing?
What happened?
Let's see it.
Second Chronicles chapter 31 verses 4 through 6.
Furthermore, he commanded the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion to the priests
and the Levites so that they might adhere strictly to the law of Jehovah.
As soon as the order was issued, the Israelites gave in great quantities the first fruits
of the grain, new wine, oil and honey and of all the produce of the field.
They brought in abundantly the tenth of everything and the people of Israel and of Judah living
in the cities of Judah also brought in the tenth of cattle and sheep and the tenth of
the holy things that were sanctified to Jehovah their God.
They brought it in and put it in many heaps.
So how did Jehovah feel about the generosity of his people?
Let's note verses 9 and 10.
Hezekiah asked the priests and the Levites about the heaps and as a rye of the chief priest
of the house of Zadok said to him, from the time they started bringing the contributions
into the house of Jehovah, the people have been eating to satisfaction and there is still
an abundant surplus for Jehovah has blessed his people and this great plenty is left over.
Yes, Jehovah, richly blessed faithful ones who generously supported the tithing arrangement.
Sadly, Israel eventually lost their generous spirit and neglected the tithe.
So some years later, Jehovah inspired the prophet Malachi to remind the nation of their
privilege of giving.
What did Jehovah say?
Let's see at Malachi chapter 3 verse 10.
Bring the entire tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my house and test
me out, please, in this regard, Jehovah of Armies says, to see whether I will not open to
you the floodgates of the heavens and pour out on you a blessing until there's nothing lacking.
Can you imagine that it was as if Jehovah was challenging each is relied to test him?
Would Jehovah really bless those who gave him the full tithe so that they elect nothing?
Yes, absolutely.
Today, of course, we are no longer under the Mosaic law with its tithing requirement,
rather than being commanded to give a tenth of our income, 2 Corinthians 9 verse 7 says,
let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion
for God loves a cheerful giver.
So what have we learned from our brief discussion of tithing that Jehovah created us to find
joy in giving and we give generously of our time and resources because we love Jehovah,
not because someone is so observing and keeping track of what we do.
We also learned that Jehovah richly blesses obedience that comes from hearts full of love
for him, but is there more that we can learn from Jehovah's dealings with ancient Israel?
Yes, we can learn from the Nazarite arrangement.
What was that?
The Nazarite arrangement is described in Numbers 6, let's read chapter 6 verses 1 and 2.
It says, Jehovah spoke further to Moses and said,
speak to the Israelites and tell them if a man or a woman takes a special vow to live
as a Nazarite to Jehovah.
Notice that Israelites, both men and women, could volunteer to become a Nazarite.
This meant that they had to meet certain requirements that were not imposed on Israelites in general.
What were those requirements?
Verse 6 verses 3 to 7 explains that Nazarites had to, for one, avoid alcohol and anything
made from the grape wine, second, avoid cutting their hair, third, avoid touching a dead body.
By voluntarily submitting to these additional requirements, Nazarites demonstrated their
love for Jehovah in a special way.
How so?
Even that you hire someone to perform repair work on your house.
After performing the repair, the worker notices other repairs that are needed and he tells
you he will do those as well at no additional charge.
How would you feel about this worker?
Would you not appreciate his extra efforts to go beyond what he was asked to do?
You might even give him extra pay.
And how would he, the worker, feel?
Because he is a generous person, he will experience the joy of giving more than what was asked.
The same was true of the Nazarites.
Jehovah did not require anyone to become a Nazarite, but he created this arrangement.
Why?
Evidently, he knew that some faithful Israelites would voluntarily submit to extra requirements
out of their great love for him.
And their appreciation for Jehovah would prompt them to do even more for him.
No doubt this brought joy to Jehovah's heart to see his people manifest a generous, appreciative
spirit in this way.
So what can we learn from the Nazarite arrangement?
That Jehovah deeply appreciates and favors those who show their love for him by going beyond
what is required.
Today this is true of ones who have their circumstances or the circumstances to pioneer and those who
are able to serve as volunteers at branch offices and in other theocratic assignments.
As we know, Jehovah discontinued the Mosaic Law with its provision for tithing for Nazarites
and for the many animal sacrifices.
Colossians chapter 2 verse 14 says, Jehovah erased the handwritten document that is the
law covenant.
However, are there lessons we can learn from these past arrangements for supporting pure
worship?
Yes.
Romans chapter 15 verse 4 reminds us that all the things that were written beforehand were
written for our instruction.
So does Jehovah's organization today benefit from the principles behind the tithing and Nazarite
arrangements?
How do we, as individuals, support modern-day arrangements for pure worship?
And does a closer examination of the arrangements for pure worship in ancient Israel indicate
a need for further adjustments today?
For the answers to these questions, let us give our attention to Brother Samuel, heard
a member of the governing body who will share the next talk in this symposium entitled Love
for Jehovah in modern times.